arak yashari is a spokesperson at the
World Health Organization joins us now
from Geneva good to have you with us
first of all let's start with these
latest
strikes two strikes within 24 hours on a
refugee camp How concerned are you about
what this is doing to the health
conditions that civilians are
facing well it's truly horrible what uh
what two million people in Gaza is going
through right now Relentless bombardment
and as we have just heard hospitals are
lacking medical supplies medicines
they're lacking fuel to operate uh and
many of hospitals have to either
completely shut down or to stop certain
Services because they're either damaged
uh during bombardment or they don't have
a fuel to operate so what we need is a
uh unhindered and safe access to bring
Medical Supply
two thir of Health Centers have already
shut down one thir of hospitals is is
not functioning anymore others are
running low on fuel and medicines we are
not only talking about injured people
who need immediate trauma care we speak
about 50,000 pregnant women 9,000 uh
cancer patients 1,000 people uh getting
dialysis treatment uh hundreds of
thousands of people with chronic
diseases all the people rely on a health
system and this system right now is
under huge stress and and and will stop
providing Services if there is no
solution to assist health workers Ina if
I could jump out jump in that that we've
seen some of the hospitals which do
remain functioning in Gaza like a shifer
and the Indonesian hospital announc that
the countdown has begun before they'll
have to shut down their operations
because of a lack of fuel do you have
any reason to believe that fuel will be
coming in soon to
Gaza well what we can do as a
humanitarian is really try to stress
that this is a moment of life and that
for thousands of patients and people in
Gaza unless hospitals continue working
it is indeed question of of time when
each hospital will have to they already
started to gradually shut services and
we heard about a Turkish hospital that
is shutting services and that's the only
uh hospital for cancer patients and
cancer cancer patients are already very
fragile and if they don't get uh the
treatment they need it is really a that
sentence for them so we really appeal to
everyone who have the possibility to
make the decision to to have access safe
access for medical supplies but also for
fuel uh to Gaza what we have brought so
far is nowhere enough uh for for what is
actually right needed right now toic we
did see a limited number of some wounded
Palestinians and some foreign Nationals
and dual Nationals leave Gaza today is
it your understanding that this is the
beginning of a process that there will
be further movement of of people in the
coming
days well indeed it is a it is a a good
uh think that some patients manag to get
to Egypt we have been working with the
Egyptian Ministry of Health in preparing
them for uh for receiving triing and and
uh uh providing Medical Care to uh to
those who uh who are coming today out of
uh out of out of Gaza we had a team in a
hospital making sure that ambulances
have all life support equipment that
doctors and paramedics are being trained
in resusitation
and basic basic health services for
those with a with a severe trauma
injuries but this is again we are
talking just about handful of of
patients the the needs in Gaza are huge
there are thousands of injured people in
in Gaza right now they cannot all be
evacuated and some of them cannot leave
the hospitals even those in alifa
hospital in the north they cannot be
evacuated we need to help hospitals to
do their job inside Gaza I I'm curious T
have you put that to the Israeli
authorities and if so what response does
the World Health Organization
get well there is a in the UN system uh
there is a mechanism to to to try to
ensure that because it's not only about
who it is about other un agencies as
well so so so there are discussions on
how to get things in and not only just
AC cross the crossing uh point in Rafa
but within Gaza we need those supplies
to be safely distributed how can we get
our things in a safe way to hospitals in
a Nor today so we need those those
guarantees uh and not only for medical
supplies it goes for for other things it
goes for for for for food uh for uh uh
for fuel for clean water so this has to
be decided on on a political level we as
who we are really ready we have our uh
Medical Teams ready to go in we have our
staff inside Gaza who who are doing
their best uh while at the same time
risking their lives uh to to provide
support to to their colleagues in the
Ministry of Health and and workers in a
hospitals but we need we really there
has to be some sort of political level
but if you really push the argument what
we need is a end of hostilities because
even if we bring supplies in as long as
there is a such a Relentless bombardment
of gas there will be necessarily more
casualties there will be more dead
people there will be more injuries so
this really has to stop all right thank
you very much t
yarich